In late August, I sat at my desk smelling the smoke of northern Californian fires raging on the other side of the continent. The screen of my phone flickered as I scrolled through heaps of news features describing the chaos ensuing on the west coast. Articles titled “Record-breaking Wildfires in Northern California'' came paired with thumbnails depicting the devastation and videos of masked victims recounting their evacuation experiences. What a terrible time to have to fight these wildfires. I quarantined in Montreal with some family to escape the calamities of my home town. As time passed, I continued to transition and gradually relinquished parts of my past.  Dreadful as it was, 2020 provided me with opportunities I would not have had in a regular year.  For a while, I was trapped in a purgatory struggling to adjust to my new life and striving to maintain old friendships. The atrocious events forced me into moving and starting a better life.
I get up from my desk and make my way to the dining room, hoping to distract myself from the horrors of the west coast. My grandmother set down the platters of kibbeh nayyeh and tabbouleh and called for me to help set the table. I gently set down a pair of utensils by each plate, double checking each lay parallel to the other and the plate between them. I walked past the stove to fetch the rest of the silverware and noticed gentle flames dancing under a pot. The kindled figures appeared harmless in relation to the hellish infernos in California. I shuddered, remembering my experiences with previous fires in the Bay Area. Memories of lockdowns reminiscent of the one we are in now flooded my brain. The thick, smokey atmosphere as harmful as the hyper-contagious disease we battle today.
Out of the several horrid occurrences in 2020, the most outstanding is the outbreak of the COVID-19 virus. This summer, I developed a vicarious way of life due to my constant online communication with friends. During the pandemic, the lack of routine outings lead to me experiencing others’ lives through their messages to me. Without my heavy online presence, I would have been unable to communicate with many of the friends I interacted with on a daily basis. My phone buzzed in my pocket as I carefully placed the forks and knives on either side of the plates. I looked down to find a terrifying image of the monochromatic grey sky in my hometown. While I quarantined in Montreal, my friends sent me several photographs of what looked like a post apocalyptic themed poster with buildings and landmarks I recognized in the background. The horror mainly comes from the drastic transformation of a clear blue Californian sky to one covered with smoke. My home state held a reputation as one of the few locations that features perfect weather. Prior to the outbreak of disease and fire, tourists treated California as a vacation spot. Ironically, the name of the city I lived in is Mountain View. Today’s “view” displays a screen of smoke following you wherever you walk. I remembered the tranquility at the beach a couple months prior to the fiery havoc currently ensuing.
In mid-July, I stared at the stretches of almost barren land as my feet sank into the burning uneven sand of Santa Cruz. Few figures, blurred by the heat, wandered on the shoreline in the distance. I had a few blisters from descending the wooden stairs, but that did not bother me. Waves ran up and caressed the edge of the sand meters in front of me. The noise of seagulls and waves was drowned out by children playing and my friends conversing. I had only moments to take this all in before my friend asked me to set up the parasol. I dropped the several full bags and the tension in my shoulder alleviated. The long plastic stake easily slid into the smooth sand. I lay under the parasol, hoping to escape the overpowering swollen sun. Even in the shade, the heat surrounded me like a blanket. This summer, a pandemic hit, forcing me to spend time with my friends in the outdoors rather than in others’ houses. At a minimum of once a week, my friends and I explored cities, beaches, and neighborhoods from the outside. Our first outing was a trip to Santa Cruz with the goal of reclaiming some of the volleyball sessions we lost due to the virus. The courts stood out in isolation from the crowds near the boardwalk. After setting up, I tossed the ball to my partner and we volleyed it back and forth to each other. Spending time outdoors was the only way to truly hang out with others in person. With the unhealthy amounts of fires and smoke, this was no longer possible.
Due to the pandemic, my family and I decided to leave California for a while. The timing could not have been better. We left during a time our home state was becoming a hotspot for wildfires and coronavirus. We also moved because I am fortunate enough to attend university. This opportunity saved me from the harsh environments in California as well as provided me with the ability to meet new people and experience new culture. The pandemic may have caused a lot of turmoil, but it indirectly provided me with opportunities I otherwise would have missed. The year 2020, known as the start of a new decade and maybe the worst year of the past decade, brought me some of the best experiences. The raging forest fires and brutal epidemic, while dreadful, did not stop me from making the most of the opportunities laid in front of me.
